Help on Entering New or Deleting Mooring Elements.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Please be careful when modifying mooring elements. This mooring dynamics and design package may not function properly or give accurate results if the necessary parameters are not entered properly.                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Add: To add an new element to the Mooring Dynamics and Design database (mdcodes.mat).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
1) Select the type of mooring element (top menu). Available types are: Floatation, Wire, Chain, Current Meter, Acoustic Release, Anchor, or Misc Instrument.                                                                                                                                                              
2) Select ''Add Element'', if it is not already displayed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
3) Type a descriptive and unique name in the ''Element Name'' field. This name is limited to a maximum of 16 characters.                                                                                                                                                                                                  
4) Enter 2 numbers: the Buoyancy (submerged mass) in kg [for wire/ropes etc kg/m], where + is upwards (buoyant), - is downwards (sinking) and Weight of a float in air. Weight=0 unless this is a FLOAT, then in air weight in kg. For Floats, these numbers determine the submerged draft of a surface float.
5) Enter the 3 number dimensions of the element in cm. separated by spaces or commas. Dim(1) is the length/height, dim(2) is the width if it is a cylinder/wire/rope (otherwise 0), dim(3) is the diameter if it is a sphere (otherwise 0). All elements are either cylinders or spheres! Dimensions limited to 0-9999 cm.
6) Enter the drag coefficient. If unknown, then use 0.65 for large spheres up to 1.0 for small spheres, and 1.0 to 1.3 for cylinders, or cylinder like instruments. Cd is limited to 0 to 9.99.                                                                                                                            
7) Once all the necessary information has been entered within the acceptable range, click ''Add''.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
8) Once all the new elements have been added, save the new mdcodes.mat file by clicking ''Save''. You will be prompted for the filename. Use the default file "mdcodes.mat" which should be stored in the moordyn directory in the MATLAB path.                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Delete: To delete elements from the mdcodes database:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
1) Select the type and element using the top two pull-down menus.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
2) Then select ''Delete Element'' From the third pull-down menu.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
3) The elements parameters should be displayed in the appropriate windows. Please check that this is the exact element to be deleted.                                                                                                                                                                                     
4) Click on the "Delete" button which should have been displayed once ''Delete Element'' was selected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
5) Once all the desired elements have been deleted/modified, then the ''mdcodes.mat'' must be saved. Click ''Save'' and select the default file in the moordyn directory, which should be in the MATLAB path.                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Backup mcodes.mat before saving.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
